Matthew Langford
Alexander Torres
HUM2305
7 March 2015
Metamorphoses Soliloquy
	This soliloquy is spoken by the daughter of King Midas at the beginning during their first appearance before Midas’ wish comes true. 
	She gets upset at her dad for multiple reasons and vents to the audience.
	I just want to play with this ball! There is nothing fun to do around here and daddy won’t buy me my own horsey! That’s all I want is a horse but I’m stuck with this stupid ball that he won’t even let me play with! He always tells his boring story to travelers that stay in our house and I’ve heard it a million times. I wish he would stop talking to them and play with me, maybe if I bounce this ball loud enough he will? Anyway, like I was saying he never gives me what I want, he never buys me the things I need. He always brags about having so much money and caring about us so much but he doesn’t and then he just keeps all his money or buys stupid things like paintings and new clothes when all I want is my very own horse that I can ride. That would make me so happy for once in my life. I remember last time we harvested, daddy bought all my brothers and sisters and me new toys to play with. He does this almost every year, but this year all I got was this stupid ball while he gave my oldest sister her very own city! That was not fair at all, he never loves me. Maybe one day he will get me the things I desire most in the world and then I will be happy… He never plays with me especially when people are over. Maybe he would jump rope with me for once? I think I left my rope back in the closet.
During the scene where Midas is giving his speech to the audience, his daughter is playing with a ball in the background and is being disruptive to him. In this soliloquy, it is obvious that his daughter just wants two things - she wants to play with her dad, and she wants him to buy her all the gifts her heart desires. These are the things that she imagines her own good life to be which fall on very different sides of the fulfilment spectrum. Love from her father will go much farther in giving her a good flourishing life than money will. Like her father, if she is given money, presents, or most other tangible items, she will crave more and more and it will become difficult for her to ever be truly satisfied. Like most adults know, kids will desire some new toy or new game but upon receiving it that lust and desire will diminish quickly and move to some other object. Everybody, like children who seek for new gadgets and toys, will always want more and never be truly satisfied and thus will never attain the good life. Eventually, after this soliloquy takes place, Midas’ own greed for wealth leads to his own daughter being turned into gold which requires him to go on a long journey to transform her back but opens his eyes about his family and what is truly important in life.
