Dr. Sjoberg – What is the Good Life?
What is the good life? Eudimomia – flourishing or doing well (not hedonism which is doing what feels good). The term good life is shrouded in controversy as to the exact meaning. 
Herodotus: what is the relationship between being successful, being well-off, being well-known, and being happy? Percuss thought that he was the most blessed, so he asked an intelligent guy expecting that he would say it Percuss. But the intelligent guy told him otherwise, he said that it was people who did things for others who were the most blessed. Is being good how you live or how you die? The story of how you die shows how you live according to the story. Percuss ends up tied up about to be burnt when he remembers the smart guy. So once he was almost dead, he thought about how he lived. 
There is such thing as the ideal life according to some of the stories we read.
The Roots of Ayurveda:  talks about the will for life, the drive for prosperity, and the aspiration for a world beyond. It is more controversial. 
Religion often answers the questions about how you should live. 
Common themes include: Food, sleep, chastity (in the sense of being reserved as well as in the sexual sense). Also, prohibition against overuse, underuse, and abuse (the “three diseases”); some sense of rebirth (whether metaphorical or literal). A lot of the readings have some sense that status and prosperity matters and influences your ability to be happy.
The Five Fold Happiness: What are the dimensions of happiness? Luck, prosperity (status, rank, and recognition), longevity (long life), double happiness (marriage), and wealth. In this view the happy person has all of those attributes but is this the case?
It’s complicated because happiness is complicated. It’s not just pleasure, wealth, fame euphoria, etc. Instead it’s a lasting sense of peace. We also don’t know it when we see it – we miss it when it’s gone. We think of happiness as a box, we are trying to get into the box without regard of what is around the box.
When people say that they are happy we usually believe them. When in passing, someone says “how are you,” you say “I’m good.” We want to hear that people are happy epically in casual conversations.
What assumptions do we make about happiness?
	Albeism – The body has to work and be fully functional
Anthropocentrism – the thought that there is something special about people that makes us more important than animals.
Essentialism – the idea that people have common needs based on certain classes (sex, race, etc)
Religions assumptions
Happiness can be a source of sadness (Sara Ahmed) it’s easy to describe people as happy where they fit in your mind and life. There are expectations for what will make us happy. Sadness comes when those expectations don’t fit or are too unreachable.
Killing Joy – we are directed by promises of happiness. We are provided a script for becoming happy and if we do those things, we will group up being happy. Ex. Do good in school, go to college, get a job, have a good marriage, support kids in life – do all of that and you will be happy is what the “script” says. Sara Ahmed says this is bad, she thinks people will reflect upon that and think they are not happy. The concern of promises of happiness are that they are just promises. These scripts reorient our desire. Often our own desires come second to what others say we should want.
Happiness can be seen as an alignment. When we feel pleasure from the things that are supposed to make us happy we are aligned. But there’s a gap between how we feel and how we think we should feel our happiness isn’t aligned. Sara Ahmed says we should disturb the fantasy that happiness can be found in certain places. 
If we realize that expectations of happiness are just a script and there’s not a list of things we can do to be happy, are you better off not knowing about the script? 
Welcome to the Desert of the Real – Our freedoms serve to mask our deeper unfreedom. You are free to decide on the condition that you make the right choice. You can freely decide but you are persuaded one way or another. We celebrate our strengths and are blind to our weaknesses. There are some conditions to our happiness:
	1) Our material needs need to be satisfied – though not too well or else we stop trying
	2) We need someone to blame for what goes wrong
	3) We need something to aspire to – it can’t be too far away or too close
We make fun of our beliefs but continue to practice them and rely on them.
Siddhartha tries different methods of reaching enlightenment. Most of these methods don’t work but he ends up finding it though strange methods. This is reflected in real life.
Do we all get to the good life differently? We experience the same things differently.
The themes in Siddhartha are - searching for what is authentic, how to know the self, and how to live a spiritually fulfilled life. It’s a story of the journey for the good life. Siddhartha’s journey starts in his father’s house. He’s good looking he’s smart and look like he’s going to be cool. He was good at everything he needed to be good at but he wanted more – he wanted enlightenment. He then left his wealthy household to become a wanderer because he thought he could find enlightenment in the purity that the wanders live. This however didn’t work out too well so he started living a life of excess – lots of sex, partying, and business. After lots of time, he finds out that life doesn’t work out. He then goes to the ferry boating life – a calm one – which is where he stays.
Is the good life enlightenment or is it just peace? If it is enlightenment, then the question of whether you can be taught enlightenment or have to learn it yourself. At the end of Siddhartha, someone ends up showing him the way to enlightenment.
Lessons from Siddhartha:
1) “Your soul is the whole world” – an inward looking notion of what the good life is (what’s inside of me rather than what is happening around me). Not material (your soul not your body). 
2) Excelling at what others think is good doesn’t always make you feel good. Siddhartha wanted to clear the expectations of others and look for what he thought was important. Self-denial is a “good” thing.
3) Feeling the “pains of life” was a source of torture. You can fail lots of times but still find peace.
4) He argues that you can’t learn enlightenment. “The teaching have already revealed their best fruits to us,” so we can’t learn what’s good about life and what’s bad about life. Something just has to click. But if you can’t learn, what happens to tradition (or religion)? But then he keeps trying to learn things.
5) Perfection is calm, not happy or sad. The idea that what we are looking for at the end of the day is to be happy, is questioned in Siddhartha.
6) The point is not to explain and then understand. Like in math, the steps might not matter when you understand the process.
7) What is love? (sex) – Kamala – Originally Kamala says no because he is broke so Siddhartha wants to make money to get her. For whom is love possible? Lust is akin to death according to Siddhartha.
8) The Child-Like People – Siddhartha says that their joy is hollow. They are only happy because they are too dumb to know any differently. There is no value in the joy of these people.
9) Listening is a rare skill, and you can listen to things that don’t talk. (The river)  
What does the journey mean? Is it a search for a meaning? If so what meaning? At different times Siddhartha thinks these things. There is something deeper out there and if you can just find that depth, then you will be good. In these books, the meaning of life is above what we do every day – meaning that you are working for something beyond material goods. 
Do you have to leave your comfort zone to achieve the good life? Siddhartha thinks that he cannot find the good life in his current life – he thinks he has to struggle for it.
Some people end up in situations without a ‘normal.’ Does going through the hard stuff, make the good stuff better. If you work hard enough and suffer through enough, the victory feels much better and well earned. After a journey, you can come to appreciate what you had before.  
The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism – The “protestant ethic” breeds “the spirit of capitalism.” They both start at around the same time in history. Protestant told people how to live which is perfect for a capitalist. He suggests that capitalism is not rational on either side (worker or capitalist). Both have to live a life of austerity in order for capitalism to get started (albeit at different levels). Protestism would account for this willingness to live in austerity. A lot of the story is about giving, self-sacrifice, and chastity – how can I live a life that pleases God. Protestism says to deprive yourself of good pleasurable things now, you get heaven later in life.
What is the role of the “other worldliness”? It is the future thing to look forward to for the suffering people on Earth. Back to predestination – if you behave well, you are probably one of the people who was predestine to go to heaven. It isn’t that you’re trying to impress God, it’s just that you’re trying to guess your future. Living in the way that God tells you is its own source of pleasure. So you should live your life to get the reward at the end as well as get pleasure from doing work.
There is a contrast between economic rationalism and rationally seeking the good life. When people make money, you would expect that people would spend the money to better themselves. To the people who think they need to please God, it isn’t bad to deprive yourself of things in this life in order to gain treasure in the next.
Benjamin Franklin – advocated some of the protestant ethic things as profitable. He said that you could make money with people with these views. Traditionalism is the enemy of capitalism. The idea of a “calling” – are all of our purposes on Earth the same or is each person meant to do a different thing. This can be seen from a religious point of view or a worldly point of view.
Franklin says that goofing off has two negative side effects: God isn’t pleased, and money is wasted.
What are the key questions in seeking the good life?
The meaning of the journey
The content of the journey
The “reward” at the end of the journey
Embodying the Good Life
Many early readings suggested meeting basic bodily needs is important to living the good life (that pyramid thingy of needs). Before we can have a good life, we must be “content.” However, Siddhartha suggested that denying the body things, might be conductive of the good life. We take these things for granted whenever we have all of our needs fulfilled. Sara Ahmed suggested the body might be a source of pain. Often, we treat our bodies poorly because we have other priorities. We choose things over our body (eating badly, not sleeping enough, working out too hard).
What do our bodies have to do with the “good life?” Our body feels things – pleasure is one of these feelings. It is in part, a physical feeling (hormones and such) and in part an emotional thing. We have a physical reaction to stress. When we are stressed, neurological functions decrease and we need more sleep and are more prone to sickness. It impacts our physical self’s as well as our emotional self’s.
Henrietta Lacks – her body was (is) used without her knowledge or permission. Since she died, her life isn’t benefited but medical science has radically changed thanks to her. She was sick and dying and asked for help but didn’t get it. Race and class play a big part in the worth of a body.
